we're going to talk about the office I
promise stick around folks rain welcome
at the writer producer you know as
Dwight Schrute assistant regional
manager manager one of the most iconic
characters in TV history hold on Michael
I am coming
I experienced a lot of pain in my life
neglect abuse abandoned and then with
anxiety and depression and addiction I
remember getting these anxiety attacks
that would leave me shaking on the floor
and sweating and I thought I was dying
waking up at three in the morning going
why should I keep living but this is the
Curious Thing I'm grateful for it
there's a reason why so many comedians
come from painful backgrounds because
comedy shifts your perspective away from
Pain and Trauma here's your choice you
kill yourself or do comedy and that was
my path it was my greatest dream come
true you said when I was in the office I
spent several years mostly unhappy
because it wasn't enough I wanted more
opportunities I wanted more money and as
long as we want to promote the ego
satisfaction we will never be happy we
all have a shadow and it's always there
it's self-important and righteous and
entitled but I'm not going to get rid of
those aspects of Myself by keeping that
shadow at arm's length you need to
embrace and accept and love one's Shadow
sit the shadow on the lap almost like a
ventriloquist dummy hello you Diary of a
CEO get a new t-shirt idiot
that's a wrap
I think this is fascinating I looked at
the back end of our YouTube channel and
it says that since this channel started
69.9 of you that watch it frequently
haven't yet hit the Subscribe button so
I have a favor to ask you if you've ever
watched this Channel and enjoyed the
content if you're enjoying this episode
right now please can I ask a small favor
please hit the Subscribe button helps
this channel more than I can explain and
I promise if you do that to return the
favor we will make the show better and
better and better and better and better
that's the promise I'm willing to make
you if you hit the Subscribe button do
we have a deal
[Music]
let's start with your context
um I always think the the earliest years
are the most important so could you take
me back to your earliest context and
give me the factors that I need to
understand to understand you sure a
couple of key pieces in my background
that have made me who I am and uh led me
to lead the life that I live are
my mom uh took off
when I was a year and a half
I lived with my with my dad
and we were members of the Baha'i faith
uh which in a nutshell is the newest of
the world's religions uh there's about
six million Baha'is around the globe
it's the second most widespread religion
so wherever you go in the world there's
going to be Baha'is you know you go to
Mongolia or Thailand or you know
Botswana or whatever there's going to be
Baha'i communities and after my dad had
been kind of essentially abandoned or
felt abandoned they got divorced uh we
moved to the jungles of Nicaragua when I
was three years old
here was this abandoned kind of toddler
kid living in the literally the jungle
uh
and my dad was an abstract painter and
science fiction writer and Baha'i and uh
that's that's how I grew up and then
when it was kind of around kindergarten
time first grade time we moved back to
Washington State and
um those are some key pieces yeah
in your 40s you started to look back at
your childhood and understand I heard
this in an interview you did I think
with
Chase Jarvis yeah on his show and one of
the things you said is when I look back
at my childhood it was filled with
depression and anxiety that you probably
didn't it seems like you didn't realize
at the time
but hindsights giving you that Clarity
yeah what were the Hallmarks of that
what were the symptoms of that and what
do you have any understanding of the
causes of that at such a young age
yes uh 2 uh two years of therapy has
given me a lot of insights into the
causes of that so you know you've got an
abandoned toddler that that'll that'll
[__] you up
um I don't know if I can swear
um
do uh do Brits swear
yeah yeah the funny ones uh and then um
you know it was this weird kind of uh
gaslighting mind [__] because I just
spent five minutes describing the Baha'i
faith right and this these beautiful
ideas and prayers and meditations and
about world peace and finding love and
connection and service
and then in my family my dad remarried
uh my stepmom uh who pretty much raised
me and they lived in a Loveless marriage
a hollow empty marriage so I come back
from the jungles of Nicaragua at five or
six my dad's remarried we're living in
Suburban Seattle and Washington State
and we are going to all these Baha'i
meetings we're singing we're doing
Kumbaya we're holding hands we're
praying we're meditating we're reading
Holy Scripture from all over the world
and talking about love and yet here's
this Loveless
shell of a house so that's what I grew
up in so you know addiction is something
that I've I've struggled with I've
struggled with depression I've struggled
with anxiety uh I've struggled on a lot
of different uh levels in my life a lot
of alienation and uh it's born of this
petri dish that I grew up in maybe I was
also wired for it you know I have
alcoholics that run on both sides of my
family for Generations but uh
that'll that'll mess you up what have
you learned about the nature of
childhood trauma and how delicate
children are I've learned so much from
speaking to people on this podcast about
it and how you know
if I listen to too many of these
episodes I might be scared to be a
parent because it's so interesting how
such a small interpretations can leave
really
um Lasting Impressions on a child about
the nature of the world I sat with Gabel
Mata and he's talked about how children
are basically narcissists and how they
interpret everything is about them so
there's an argument over there a baby
will think it's it's about the baby but
what have you learned about through your
years of therapy but also your own
experiences
well I experienced a lot of pain in my
life uh and a lot of suffering uh with
anxiety and depression and addiction and
as I kind of dove into recovery and to
the therapeutic process I can pin that
squarely on a lot of you know gross
imbalances and Trauma that I suffered as
a child so there's that
um we all have that to some degree and
it's important to excavate and honor
uh the pain that we went through and the
and the lies that we were told the
gaslighting we might have undergone
um there's there's religious trauma that
we undergo as well there's all kinds of
different traumas that we suffer and
this is the this is the Curious Thing
I'm grateful for it because you know
what
if I had had a happy well-balanced
childhood
I you know I don't know what my career
would have been but it certainly
wouldn't have been an actor and it
certainly wouldn't have been a
successful actor so these
these confluences of of pain and and
difficulty and and abuse and neglect
um they caused me a lot of suffering
later on but at the same time they
caused me to be driven to try and be the
best version of myself they set me on a
spiritual path
uh to really deeply explore the world's
spiritual traditions and to try and
connect with my higher power and to go
on a journey of self-discovery and then
to take what I've learned and to share
that with others and they
they made me funny
so there's a really interesting
thing I heard uh Dr uh Arthur Brooks
from Harvard University who you should
have on the show uh speak about uh and
he talked about how the opposite of pain
and Trauma is is humor he's he was
saying like for instance if you're
feeling uh depressed let's say we all
know you fill that with gratitude and
when you have a gratitude journal and
you share gratitude experience gratitude
meditate on gratitude
it the other stuff evaporates when you
when you shift your focus and your
perspective to what you're grateful for
what brings you hope and joy and purpose
and meaning even if it's a small thing
like you know this delicious cup of tea
right here so
the same uh mechanism Works in comedy
that and there's a reason why so many
comedians come from painful backgrounds
because
comedy is what you plug in to shift your
perspective away from Pain and Trauma
just like gratitude takes you away from
from depression so you'll see time and
time again these amazing you know the
great comedians of the age you know and
how much suffering they underwent in
their lives but
comedy became the the necessary uh thing
to plug in to their perspective in order
to carry forward it's like
uh here's your choice you kill yourself
or do comedy and
um and then they do comedy and and you
know you think about so many of the
great ones uh Jim Carrey you think about
Robin Williams they talk about mental
health and common we did a for soul
pancake we did a documentary
um called laughing matters about the
intersection of comedy and mental health
and so in this sense too I'm grateful
for what I went through because I
wouldn't be here today having this
incredible conversation with you had I
not gone through that
those those difficulties that neglect
that abuse and that gaslighting that I
underwent as a kid when you say the word
abuse you mean the gaslighting
yeah you know I don't want to get into
stories there was you know there was
some there was
there was lots of different kinds of
abuse yeah yeah
if I if I'd met you 15 16 years old who
would I who would be the man that I met
at that point when your mother came back
into your life you said you needed her
at that point at 15 or 16 I was uh gawky
and self-hating and
um uh innocent and completely cut off
from my emotions and had my dad and
stepmom had zero emotional tools uh the
only kind of expression of emotion that
I experienced in my household was rage
and uh and then either Rage or like
again these spiritual Baha'i Gatherings
where we were singing and praying and
meditating so it was
um but the idea of you know
sadness frustration disappointment uh
all these quote unquote negative
emotions and how to navigate them there
were I have I had zero tools
so I'll never forget sitting down was
one of the first meetings with my mom
and I was at a Denny's restaurant in
Yakima Washington and uh and she said
rain you seem very tightly wound
what's what's going on how is your heart
and I just started sobbing I just
started
bawling I mean
it was pretty unsightly at the at the
Denny's
um
uh waiting for the Grand Slam breakfast
and um there's a corporate sponsor for
you potential
uh and just like that kind of crying of
the kind of the heaving sobs and that's
what I'm talking about that's the kind
of connection that I needed like finally
someone was asking me what was in my
heart you know and
that began a kind of a process of
having conversations about human
emotions
um that I was so ignorant of that we're
all so ignorant of
and it helped me immensely
when you sit down the the animation you
understood was like rage and then this
real
happiness at the spiritual gatherings
it made sense the gaslighting because
it's such a confusing message to send a
young person it's a this juxtaposition
between like
uh yeah
yeah
in fact I remember I remember times
uh and I don't really blame my stepmom
for this because my dad was not a good
husband to her and there was a lot that
was out of balance and and he could be
incredibly narcissistic and
um but I remember having we would have a
Baha'i Gathering let's say at our house
and people were going to come over and
we were going to pray or we were going
to study holy writings or whatever
people do at buy Gatherings and uh they
would have a fight and she would be
raging in the kitchen and slam dishes
down and break the dishes and they would
be fighting and then but ding dong the
people would come over like hi I brought
flowers and here's a here's some cookies
and and they would come in and my step
bomb would then march across the living
room
to the bedroom door and go so bam and
slam the bedroom door and the people
would be there in the doorway and my dad
would go
come on in thanks so much for coming
and there was never any kind of uh uh
you know
you know acknowledging what had just
happened and that was and so for an
eight-year-old nine-year-old
ten-year-old being in that milieu you're
like what the hell is going on is this
how people act is this how we're
supposed to act we have all these
emotions but we don't talk about them
and and then we go and we and we pray
together so you know this led me to a
very long period of time where I was
completely alienated from my faith in my
in my 20s and um I didn't want anything
to do with religion or spirituality
certainly not morality
um because I just saw the hypocrisy in
it and
that's when I really started undergoing
uh
a spiritual crisis a mental health
crisis things started breaking down for
me and that's when I decided to kind of
re-examine these ideas as a potential
way out as a potential path forward for
my own transformation for my personal
healing and and I was ultimately able to
come back to the religion of my youth
and find great
peace and Solace and meaning in it
after a long journey through my 20s and
early 30s that tumor and experience from
your youth how does that play into you
becoming an actor because you said you
wouldn't have been you're grateful
because you don't think you would have
been an actor or the actor that you are
without that experience what is the I'm
trying to figure out where acting fit
into that you talked about comedians
using comedy as a as kind of like a life
raft away from their pain why was acting
the thing that found rain
I don't know and there's the genetic
component as well that my birth mother
was also an actor and interested in
acting I don't know exactly
um even before I thought like
oh you could be an actor or you could
make a living in an actor or you could
train as an actor like I didn't even
know like I want to do that but it's
like whatever that is is magical and
amazing and I was drawn to it like a
magnet so
I don't know and then you know I I took
my first acting class
um we had moved to Chicago from Seattle
and I went to a high school that had a
really good theater program and I took
my very first acting class and uh I did
a scene where uh you're supposed to
pretend that you're in your bedroom and
that no one's watching right so I put on
this Elvis Costello song mystery dance I
brought in my my record player from home
and I brought in some stuff from my room
and I put on the record of mystery Dance
by Elvis Costello and I started just
thrashing around and just being
ridiculous and lip syncing and jumping
around and flopping on the floor and
stuff like that and it I was a brand new
student this was like in the first week
at this new school and it brought the
house down
and the the 15 to 16 year old that I
said that was kind of pimply and gangly
and emotionally cut off and self-hating
um
all of a sudden people were patting me
on the back back and punching me in the
shoulder and saying oh my God that was
so great and high-fiving me and all of
these like cute girls from junior year
in high school were like oh where are
you from you're from Seattle amazing
will you come sit with us at our lunch
table and like and and here I was this
kid from Suburban Seattle where I had
been on the chess team and played the
bassoon and been on Model United Nations
and I'd barely talk to a girl and uh and
then I was like all right I'm in
whatever this is I want this I'm good
this is it forget all that other stuff
screw the bassoon screw the chess team
I'm in with the drama Geeks and uh and
that was my path so so part of it is not
so Noble part of it is
um
I went where there was acceptance where
there was love where I had some skill I
could make people laugh and where I got
attention from the opposite sex
hello
most of us um 20 years old you graduate
with a degree in drama
ish 20 23 23 close and then you speak of
1991 when you're 25 25 years old that's
really when you had your as you say your
spiritual crisis hmm
was there a catalyst for that it seems
to it seems that at that point in your
life is when you started experiencing
anxiety attacks in a really
debilitating way was there a catalyst
for that was there anything in your life
that was was absent or was it just do
you think it was just things catching up
on you from your earliest years
um well I don't know about a catalyst
but I will paint the picture that I'm
out of drama school I'm getting a few
little acting jobs here and there but
they're not paying anything I'm living
with a friend in an abandoned beer
brewery in Brooklyn
uh essentially kind of legally squatting
but we didn't have heat we didn't have a
shower there were rats scuttling around
and I was working in this bar
where I get off work at 4am and uh I had
a roommate and we were living out there
and
I was really directionless I started
really experimenting with a lot of drugs
and alcohol and
I was pretty rudderless and
um
uh and I started getting hit with really
crippling anxiety attacks so I wasn't in
the most healthy living environment
right so but at the same time I remember
getting these anxiety attacks that would
leave me literally shaking on the floor
and sweating and I thought I was dying
and I was like about to call 9-1-1 like
five different times and heart
palpitations sweating
and um I I talked to a doctor at NYU
about them and they said oh these are
just anxiety attacks so I knew that
that's what they were but I didn't
really know anything about them and uh I
started getting really depressed and um
so there wasn't really like an event but
circumstances provided the perfect
environment for kind of a mental health
breakdown of someone who's 25 years old
and how long did that chapter that
parent of your life lost while you were
having anxiety attacks and you were
rudderless
um I would say five or six years
yeah
there were some things got better I
started working a little bit more
uh I had a relationship with my
girlfriend who's now my wife we've been
together for 32 years and that was great
but even that even a better apartment
and a nice relationship couldn't save me
from
some of what was going on and we didn't
in the 90s we didn't really have words
for a mental health breakdown or mental
health issues or crisis you know it was
and people didn't really go to therapy
you didn't really you couldn't really
afford it it was that was like for rich
people like Woody Allen or something
um so
uh uh it it stayed things got nominally
better but I still uh was uh
pretty uh depressed and and frustrated
and overwhelmed and
just generally alienated the kind of
waking up at three in the morning with
just wide awake staring at the ceiling
going like
what the [__]
does life mean why am I here what you
know why should I keep living what's
how do I find meaning and
um just that that just anguish and
disconnection and a really core level
you ask yourself that question why
should I keep living
yeah
um
and it wasn't at that point I mean I've
had some suicidal ideation over the
years that wasn't a time when I was
actively thinking about ending it but it
really was kind of again one of these
life's big questions life's deep
questions that I've been kind of poking
at in my various books of like why
should we keep living what what is the
purpose is it because one of the odd
things Stephen was that I was in certain
regards living a life beyond my wildest
dreams here was that kind of abused and
gas-lit kid with low self-esteem from
Suburban Seattle
um who kind of hated himself and and
really had trouble fitting in socially
in any way shape or form here I am
living in New York City
beautiful girlfriend working as an actor
in the theater not making much money and
it was only fitfully but still that's a
big leap to go from where I was and and
yet I wasn't happy so there was this odd
disconnect because I think societally
we're taught like hey you find the thing
you love to do you go study it you put
in your time you work at it and you
you're gonna start working and yeah
you're gonna start slow but it's going
to build and then you're gonna find
incredible joy and purpose and meaning
in your work and I was doing that work
in the theater and I was getting to be
an actor and I was getting paychecks as
an actor which is an incredible uh
experience uh but I was still
chronically dissatisfied and it didn't
make any sense because Society had been
telling me this thing for a decade or
two and
I
I sh I felt like I shouldn't be this uh
chronically dissatisfied but I am
when did I reach its peak
um
it's hard to say it it came in waves
throughout my mid-20s and and early 30s
and it that's what prompted me and this
is why pain can be such a valuable
teacher and in fact Arthur Brooks just
had a column today out in the Atlantic
where he was talking about pain and
anxiety and depression does not mean
that you have a mental health issue
those are
normal standard uh
uh aspects of being a human being so but
my pain prompted me to go on a spiritual
Quest and I'm really grateful for that
like I said
to go on a spiritual Quest
depression and pain and anxiety and
those things were signals telling you
something something's out of balance
how are you going to bring yourself into
balance how are you going to make sense
of all this
and at the time there weren't podcasts
on positive psychology and there weren't
I mean I guess there were some self-help
books but I didn't really know about
them because of my uh background because
of my childhood
I thought well perhaps because I've
abandoned anything and everything to do
with God and spirituality and religion
maybe that's where I have lost my way
and maybe I need to re-explore those
Avenues and maybe I could find personal
meaning and serenity uh by exploring
spiritual ideas so it was a long process
it was a good eight or ten year process
but I'm I'm grateful that my pain
took me along that path one of the
things that I think brings spirituality
and some of these big questions into
focus is
death something you talk about in your
new book Soul boom and something you've
spoken about previously as well
something that I've often pondered about
um I think it's one of the things that
really made me go in search of answers
deep questions at a very young age
um you talk I think it's in chapter
three of your book but I listened on the
audiobook so it's chapter not six on the
audiobook
um about the passing of your father
how did how did that bring into Focus
spirituality meaning and some of these
big questions of life
well I think if you're going to look at
spirituality one of the top three big
questions is what happens when we die
and of course we don't know but just
because we don't know or will never know
um does that mean that we shouldn't
explore that question
uh hint no so
uh it's something it's a topic and a
theme and a question I had thought about
a lot I had spoken about I'd researched
um
and pondered deeply but obviously and I
had had you know some people that I knew
that had died along the way of course
but when my father died about three
years ago
um
that made a profound impact and really
prompted me to write the book Soul boom
because I had one of these key kind of
transcendent experiences spiritual
experiences which was
in
uh
we my dad died of heart disease he was
getting a quadruple bypass surgery and
he just couldn't make it he didn't they
didn't have
any way to repair the damage in his
heart and anyways it was
we thought he was going to get through
the surgery and he died so it was in we
knew it was risky but it was uh it was
it was not a predicted death and uh
my
his current wife his widow and myself
were in the hospital with him and
we had to essentially unplug him and
um it was devastating and terrifying and
oddly enough
strangely cliche at the same time and I
couldn't help but uh and maybe this is
is that that trauma-based comedic kind
of uh aspect of my of my uh
of myself that I I just kept witnessing
myself in the situation where my father
was dying there's a heart machine going
beep beep beep beep there's a little
oxygen machine going
and there's doctors and nurses walking
around with their squeaky shoes and the
linoleum floors and I was like wow this
is just like one of those Hospital shows
I just kept thinking like this is just
like er Gray's Anatomy like wow
um it's like it's so cliche
but
we had to unplug him
um he was going to be dead within an
hour and uh we were sobbing and I looked
at his Gray
body there on the table and you know I
saw all these aspects of my dad that I
loved you know the one eyebrow hair kind
of poking out and you know the mole on
his arm and the way his hands are and uh
his hair kind of messy and
uh was filled with such love and such
heartbreak and at the same time
at seeing his lifeless body I was like
um this isn't him this isn't my dad
this is the vessel that carried my dad
Robert Wilson and his beautiful heart
and spirit and his dynamism and his
creativity his light as it were is no
longer here but that's his reality this
body is just a shell it's a vessel it's
an avatar and and I also didn't
experience it as oh
he has it's been snuffed out like a
candle it just seemed very clear like oh
it has passed on
it's somewhere else now and here is is
his body and that was such a profound
spiritual experience that I knew
intellectually from my study but it's
one of those learnings that kind of has
to hit you in the gut
to make you really understand it and go
oh and I remember that amazing quote
that I often pull out from uh father
tahar de Chardon a Jesuit priest who
said famously we are not human beings
having a spiritual experience we Are
Spiritual Beings having a human
experience
and that quote which I've always loved I
saw
just evidenced with my father oh he's a
spiritual being he had a human
experience for 79 years in this body
and now his spiritual reality has passed
and moved on and
this is one of the essential messages of
Soul boom is that we Are Spiritual
Beings we're having this incredible
Human Experience look at us having this
incredible dialogue right now and then
I'm gonna go get an Uber and then I've
got to go do some voiceovers then I'm
gonna go play tennis with a friend and
I'm having this you know I'm having a
relationship with my wife and with my
son I'm learning I'm growing I'm being
challenged and uh it's magnificent and
here's my my fleshy somewhat corpulent
57 year old body that has done I've done
pretty well by it's ridiculous enough so
I get to take my shirt off occasionally
as Dwight and people can laugh at my
absurdly pale and oblong torso and I'm
fine with it it's all for comedy right
and parts of my body are starting to
break down I've got like half Hearing in
my in my left ear and I've got mild
sleep apnea and I have to wear a mouth
Appliance
that juts my jaw forward and I wake up
in the morning and I go
and I place it on the side of the bed
and here I am this spiritual being
having a human experience as rain
Dietrich Wilson
this is fabulous but this is part of
what we need to recognize and this could
help people this can help people with
their mental health struggles is an
understanding that where we're radiant
luminescent precious shards of the
Divine inhabiting these these fleshy
meat suits for hopefully 89 to 100 years
and struggle and suffering and anxiety
it just comes with the game baby it's
just part of the game
talk about a friend called Dave yeah
David or Dave who also passed quite
suddenly
um and his handling of that in
particular
um surprised you in many ways
oh Dave one of my best friends
um David vonenkin who's a television
director and film director brilliant guy
uh wonderful human being and he just got
diagnosed out of out of nowhere with
stage four stomach cancer I mean just
like out of nowhere
mid 50s and uh essentially a death
sentence
so I got to spend a lot of time with him
in his last year and a half after that
diagnosis and we did weekly Beach walks
and he said to me
several times and he would just grab my
arm and he would say
rain
it's just static it's all just static
you've got to get the static out of your
life
the emails the meetings the the career
the the appointments the the driving the
traffic the phone calls the zooms it's
all just static it's all noise
and
that really resonated with me and I know
a lot of people have mentioned that in
the book because we do experience our
life as this kind of like buzz of like
appointments and choppings and zooms and
a point and and bills to pay and and
whatnot and
uh that was profoundly impactful
um and I would always encourage David to
it's a tricky situation you know when
someone's dying I don't want to like
God forbid lecture him on on death or
thinking about it but I would always
just turn it a little bit toward a more
profound discussion about
you know the soul and the journey of the
soul and the and the movement of of the
spirit you know beyond our this Corporal
3D uh surround sound experience of being
a human being to the Realms Beyond
um
but he like many people
um he he he got a little stuck in a way
that made me sad because he really just
focused on fighting the cancer which is
super super important right so he
devoted all of his waking time and
energy to to research and treatment and
diet and everything to fight the cancer
which is super important and I don't
blame him but
um it was pretty terrifying for him to
consider mortality and the implications
thereof he had a daughter and
um but I'll never forget him talking
about static in that way and I find that
very to be also very clarifying you know
in my daily meditation practice like
How can I
again the Buddha uses the image a lot of
the lotus flower you know it's floating
on top of the swamp you know these
beautiful lotuses and there's the swamp
and the mire and the bugs and the dirt
and the and this beautiful flower Rising
above and how can we in our own little
way be a Lotus Flower and the rest of
the swamp is is our daily static
the rest of the swamp the alternative
way of living to everything you've just
described what is the alternative way of
living so you know you've got the the
realization that everything is static
and the understanding that we Are
Spiritual Beings having a human
experience yeah what is the opposite of
that that you see when you walk the
streets or You observe people like what
is the opposite way of living to that
and why is it causing suffering
Thoreau talked about the unexamined life
is not worth living why did he say that
and what did he mean by that well it's
been a long time since I read Walden
Pond
um and the night throws bent in jail but
I love the transcendentalists because
that is really kind of the first
authentic uh American spiritual movement
and uh this idea that uh we're seeking
uh Transcendence that were that was kind
of the first movement that really
acknowledged like we're Spiritual Beings
so I think you know it's the unexamined
life I think
um
living in the static living in the swamp
is not taking the time to uh honor
the sacred Divinity of aspects of our
life
and
you know I I have a
when you study meditation and you and
you participate in meditation there's
this strange thing that happens where
you realize that you
the reality of you
is the Watcher The Observer when you
meditate
your thoughts are still bouncing around
you know the Buddhists call it the
monkey mind right so you're about your
thoughts are bouncing around you might
have some anxiety and worry like oh is
that person going to accept my offer on
this or is this thing going to work out
or oh is my wife still mad at me or
whatever so you have this emotional
dissonance and you have this kind of
intellectual uh dissonance and then in
the meditative State you're just
witnessing that it's almost like you're
floating above it and looking down and
then you realize like oh my reality is
not my thoughts
my reality is not my feelings my reality
is not even just my body and the
sensations that my body takes in there
is some kind of aspect of the eye
that is the witnesser and
it's getting in touch with that that
allows us to get above the static so
meditation is very important to me the
next step of meditation for me is
connecting with
the ultimate Divine you can do it in
prayer I have a chapter in the book
called The Notorious God
getting into God so
um
yeah that that's one way to rise above
the noise and the static and the swamp
is in that practice and then
I mentioned at the very beginning like
recognizing the sacred and the Divine
um
and we can do this it's certainly easy
to do in the beauty of nature it's also
when you have children and you're and
you're raising a kid you kind of see
that the beauty in the in the kids
Natural Curiosity and wonder and
open-heartedness
and then you experience it in in human
interaction you know I think I view this
conversation as sacred this is a this is
a sacred conversation where seeking to
understand each other
um you're you're being a service to your
incredible audience they want to learn
about how to make themselves better
people how to start a business how to
maximize their health how to go on a on
a spiritual journey as a human being
they want to learn all this and you're
providing the the the way in to them so
we get to have this conversation people
may not agree with what I'm saying but
it might spark something and you know
gratitude and witnessing the sacred and
that meditative practice of kind of
rising above our thoughts and feelings
um
that those are those are tools that we
can use to make our lives better and and
richer if someone is on the the outsides
of this conversation and they they don't
really understand what spirituality is
and they've not really gone on the
journey that you've been on what uh what
kind of questions would you pose to them
to help them open their mind
so if someone's listening to this they
find the word spiritual to be kind of
hippie stuff and they they're not really
you know they managed to get this far in
the conversation but they don't really
understand spirituality what it means
they managed to get this [__] don't turn
off the party yeah yeah there's more
good stuff coming we're going to talk
about the office I promise stick around
folks way too many cameras here is it I
think there's nine or something
um what would you say to those people
that I just think of a guy driving his
like Lorry up the country he's put the
podcast on and he's he doesn't really
know what spirituality is doesn't really
understand it doesn't understand why
that he would therefore need it in his
life
yeah
that's a great question I don't know
that I have an answer for that I mean
I guess you know the dictionary
definition of of spirituality that I use
is uh a focus on the non-material
aspects of life
so
that's our heart that's our our soul
it's our connection
it's the light that we bring
it's
kind of a a connection to what I would
call those uh Divine qualities that we
all carry
uh to some degree or another
um spiritual virtues you could call them
you know love compassion honesty
humility
these are qualities that don't
necessarily serve us as human animals so
there there's something uh they're not
about the quest for power they're not
about the Quest for status and comfort
they allow us to kind of rise above
uh our kind of humdrum Human Experience
so that's what I would that's how I
would Define spirituality something in
that realm but I would say that
um
listen we all want more love in our life
right and love is the most precious and
beautiful resource and I would say maybe
you don't believe in spirituality but or
maybe you don't believe in God but you
can focus on love and we can all focus
on love that's something we all have an
experience of
and so we want to increase love in our
life that's that's increasing
spirituality it's the same thing like
um
I had a profound experience of love
um when my son was born he almost died
it was very traumatic birth
an ER room with blood in the middle of
the night and a you know really
piss-poor Van Nuys California you know
County Hospital in a hallway
um emergency C-section and when I held
my son like again I had one of those
handful of truly Transcendent
experiences one of those Cosmic
experiences of looking into my son's
eyes and they were bright bright blue
and you just been ripped from the womb
of his mother and I felt such profound
love for him and it was just like waves
after waves of of love and just almost I
had tears but it was almost just beyond
tears it was like this Transcendent like
love orgasm that was minutes long as I
as I held him it just with such
gratitude and
um and
you know for a lot of materialists they
could say well that's just neurons and
biochemicals in your brain that are
causing that and that's true there are
neurons firing and there's biochemicals
but it's so much more than that you're
never going to tell me that that's all
it is and that is just some biological
imperative to you know have the species
move forward and that's why parents love
their children like what I experienced
I'm sorry it's just it's beyond that you
can call me deluded but that's what
spirituality is is just increasing that
love connection I think that was a
dating show in the 90s love connection
but we want to increase
that love connection and that is what a
spiritual journey is about and we can
increase that with ourselves with nature
with with time with beauty
um and with our with our fellow human
beings how did the both of your son
change your life
well having kids uh is a paradigm shift
uh because you have a creature that's in
your care and is dependent on you
and it was actually really profound when
my son was a year and a half
uh the same age that I was when my mom
left to have the affair that was a
really profound time in my life it
brought up a lot for me emotionally
because I saw this toddler kid
and he would go out and explore the
world and be like oh here's a cup and
he'd play with some blocks and he'd oh
tree and he'd had some words going and
stuff like that and then immediately
you'd see this look on his face like oh
I'm out too far like oh I've swum out
too far and then he'd run back to the
shallow end
to his mom and cling to his mom and like
ah and mom was home base right
and I was like oh that home base was
stripped from me was taken away from me
when I was that same age I was pretty
profound
but this idea that our
um we're responsible we brought a life
into the world and we're responsible for
that life not just for five or ten years
not just for the first 18 years but for
eternity it's um
it's profound I can't really say
intellectually what that means but
um it shifts the way you are alive in
the world that example you gave of your
son at one and a half years old being
able to return to home base in that you
can also see what what might have
happened to his development and his
perspective if when he'd gone out too
far and turned around there was no
mother there yeah
who we might have become and if there
was no mother there and then
if if I and but then he he had the
Father which is a close second right but
then my dad who was so traumatized by
being abandoned by his wife and was so
already emotionally shut down and he
couldn't really access emotions in the
best of scenarios he had been colossally
abused as a kid and his mom died and his
dad was abusive and beat him and left
him and his sister alone in the house
for weeks at a time it was very Charles
Dickens
um so this
you know my dad's case he was he was the
worst possible person to to have to bond
to you know or to need to bond to so you
know if Little Walter if my wife holiday
had left or or died for some reason and
Walter had to turn to me like
it would have been okay but there's
there's nothing that fulfills that
um
uh that that Primal human uh
connection-ness then
a child and the mom one of the things
that really surprised me
um was when I was reading about your
time at the office which by the way I
have to say is my favorite show of all
time
you should probably say that I'm sure
that's the case for a lot of people wait
are you saying right now that the U.S
office is better than the UK office yes
wow yes I know do you hear that it is
maybe because there was more of them
there's a hell a lot more of them so
I've watched I watched honestly when I
was going through a difficult part in my
life and I was trying to building my
businesses I was shoplifting food
because I was just I was so broke at
this chapter of my life it was the I had
this beat up laptop where I had to like
solder the charger because I couldn't
afford the 10 pounds to buy a new one it
was the only thing I watched and I
watched it for about two years so
obviously I I just kept going back and
back and back it was you know you talk
in chapter 10 about the Seven Pillars of
spiritual Revolution and one of them
being about spreading Joy it spread a
whole lot of joy in my life a whole lot
of joy and I don't watch TV to be honest
I don't watch TV movies don't really
watch any of it these guys will know but
the office
I watched I didn't think there's
anything else that I have watched
um but when I when I read about your
your experience on the show there was a
real sense of unfulfillment
especially in the early years when you
were making the show
you talked about that a little bit on
Bill's podcast as well when I was in the
office I spent several years really
mostly unhappy because it wasn't enough
yeah well first of all I'm so glad that
you enjoyed the office and I just need
to speak to How Deeply gratified I am
and all of us are that the office has
brought so much
Serenity and peace and love and uh
upliftment and inspiration to people
I mean getting on a TV show is one of
the hardest things in the world and then
getting on one that lasts is a really
hard one and then getting on one that
lasts and is good and then one that
lasts and is good and still has a
cultural impact 10 years after it has
ended
is I mean talk about hitting the lottery
I mean we had no idea we knew we were
onto something really special and and
funny and magical and of course Steve
Corral is one of the great comedic
actors that will ever live
um
but we had no idea I would have this
kind of impact and more so
deeply grateful and gratified
around that and I going back to the
English office it's always like it's so
funny to me uh and the bassoon King the
other book there I talk a little bit
about that that competition is so absurd
like the the anger and vitriol that you
Brits brought to the fact that he that
Americans were going to make remake the
Beloved office it was so staggering I
mean it was so enraged and vitriolic and
it was like guys
guys the English office isn't going
anywhere you can watch it over and over
again we're not going to take all the
copies and burn them you know what I
mean we're going to take a brilliant
idea by you know by Ricky and Stephen
and the BBC and God bless them
um you know it's
astonishingly brilliant and we're gonna
kind of run with it instead of 12
episodes we're gonna make 200 episodes
how's that if you don't like it you
don't have to watch it but uh that was
an interesting uh time frame but yeah so
it's interesting that you bring this up
because
I was very frustrated because I was on
Bill Maher and I was on one other
podcast and I was talking about how
there were times on the office that I
really struggled because I really wasn't
happy
um
because it wasn't enough here I was on
the greatest job that I could ever
imagine beyond my wildest dreams of that
geeky chess playing bassoon playing kid
from Suburban Seattle that you know
walked around like a pimply serial
killer
um that I would be part of one of the
great TV shows of all time I mean give
me a break and here I was getting paid
like millions of dollars and playing one
of the most memorable characters in them
getting nominated for awards and I'm
working with the most beautiful family
of of actors and writers imaginable and
yet I was like
how come I can't get more movies and why
did my movie I did bomb and why won't
they make a deal with me and I I just I
want to have this and I want an office
on Warner Brothers and why can't I get
you know and I spent a lot of time uh
unnecessary time and angst and anguish
um in that anxious discontent
um at a time when I should have just
been like
this it doesn't get better than this
just enjoy it drink it in and be a part
of this incredible artistic because it
was artistic experience so but I think
the reason I've been bringing that up
and some interviews
is I think it's important for people to
understand that you know here's someone
who you know 15 years into their acting
career 20 years into their acting career
because I was I started playing Dwight
when I was 38 years old
um is uh has officially made it yeah and
they're still unhappy and that is so
human it's so quintessentially human and
to think that oh if I hit this end
result then I am going to be happy
and that's why I brought it back to that
unhappiness that I experienced in my 20s
like
I was an actor I was from Suburban
Seattle here I was I had an apartment in
New York I was doing acting and yet I
was really unhappy and miserable and it
didn't make any sense because Society
had always told me like there's this if
then proposition like if you achieve X Y
and Z if you make a certain amount of
money if you get a certain position if
you're in a certain kind of relationship
if you have a house at a certain level
if you're a member of a certain club or
whatever then you will be happy once I
achieve this then I will be happy that's
[__] it's absolute and total crock
of [__] now
certainly I'm not meaning to demean
anyone that's struggling to pay bills
and they're going like you know [__] you
Hollywood elitist you got millions of
dollars in the bank and uh you don't
have to worry about you know paying the
bills I was there you know I was I was
having to worry about you know paying
the bills and it was it was a struggle
for the you know first 15 years of my
career so I've been there I know what
that's like and I honor that so you
certainly want to make enough money to
it does take an incredible pressure off
your shoulders once you have achieved
that but to think that then you're going
to be happy I mean you've interviewed a
lot of millionaires and a lot of
successful people like how how many of
them are really
fulfilled uh deeply fulfilled and happy
what would I've had to have done to have
gotten rain at the height and the peak
of that success even when it was going
to be in the moment and to enjoy it for
what it was because it's not just you
it's all the people that are listening
now that are in jobs they've just got
that promotion and now they're thinking
about becoming a director or a CEO that
they too are deferring their happiness
off to the Future behind some goal what
can we do in the moment to just like
enjoy life today bring our happiness
into the into the now
um if you always think your happiness is
somewhere in the future it always will
be
um what would I've had to have said to
you to to get you to snap out of that
um
that that's a great question I don't
know that there's anything that you
could have said to me in a couple of
sentences or a couple of paragraphs but
I think if you could have encouraged me
to go back onto my spiritual journey
back into my spiritual journey because
you're absolutely right all we have is
now all we have is this next breath is
this breath that we're currently
experiencing and this is where the joy
is and if we're waiting for the joy to
be
375 breaths from now or 3 000 breaths
from now or 300 breaths from now
um we're missing out a hundred percent
and
I think gratitude has a great deal
because one of the cures for chronic
dissatisfaction is the cure for dukkha
is
is gratitude and I would have been to
Reign one of the things that would have
been really helpful is like rain you
need to start every day with 10 things
you're grateful for it's like I'm
grateful for Jenna Fisher and John
Krasinski and Steve Carell and I'm
grateful for a nice paycheck and a
healthy son and a beautiful wife and I'm
I'm grateful for you know the fans of
the office and the fact that I get to
you know I've trained as an actor my
whole life and I get to use those skills
and tell wonderful stories and make
people laugh like if I could have been
stayed hooked into that and I did get
hooked back into that that was this was
a I'm describing a period of like three
years three to four years where I was
really struggling with that and then and
then I I came around
um doesn't rub you of your ambition
though this is a question I always used
to mull with myself because that that
rain that wanted more
versus the rain I guess I'm grateful for
what I have is one more or less
ambitious than the other
yeah that's a that's a great question
and I don't know the answer to that
because there is
um
did my chronic dissatisfaction fueled my
spiritual drive and also fueled my
career drive and my ambition
um because I was so chronically dis
disenchanted and disaffected uh that I I
wanted uh
I wanted more I wanted more
opportunities I wanted more money I
wanted more knowledge I wanted more
wisdom
um there's there's a drive there that
can be healthy in a drive that's there's
an unhealthy aspect to it so I don't
really know the answer to that I think
for now when I look in my life like I
still have great ambition like I still
want Soul boom as a brand I'm just kind
of starting to think about like how to
expand that as a brand
um I still want to act in movies you
know I want to direct I want to maybe
create companies you know I created
Seoul pancake maybe create another
company or something like that and
there's a lot I want to do
um but I'm hoping to bring the best
aspects of myself towards that ambition
and for me that has to do with service
and
um and God and
um and utilizing myself my god-given
talents and faculties and maximizing
those
um
and living in God's will I'm sorry to
get all
hippie dippy religious now but to me
that's what's driving me now but it's uh
as long as we're in the battle of the
ego and that's the most ancient bright
human spiritual struggle it's the battle
of the ego and psychologists talk about
it and Prophets talk about it and gurus
talk about it right so as long as we
want to promote the self and the
self-will and ego satisfaction we'll
never be happy are you happy I am yeah
Happy's the wrong word but
whatever it is you mean by happy I have
that thing what is that thing
um I don't know what the word is and I I
Ponder this a lot like what's the
perfect word you know social scientists
talk about well-being so
I like that one a lot that works it's
partially contentment but it's also
partially
meaning and purpose and vision and when
I'm in alignment with meaning and
purpose and vision
um then I feel
like I'm vibrating
on the right frequency I discovered a
product which has changed my life called
Eight sleep and I'm so proud to say
today that I had a chat with the founder
of the brand and they are now a podcast
sponsor and one of the things I've come
to learn on this podcast from speaking
with Sleep Experts like Matthew Walker
is how important temperature is when it
comes to sleep the temperature of your
room the temperature of your bed and
also one of the big insights I had from
speaking to some experts was that the
temperature of the room should fluctuate
throughout the night as you move through
different stages of sleep so when you
first get into bed it should be quite
cool in bed it should then get a little
bit cooler and then the temperature
should increase near the end and that is
a reflection of what would have happened
in nature once upon a time you've
probably come to learn that I have
sponsors on this podcast that I use and
products that I love my sponsors should
be a reflection of the conversations I'm
having but also a reflection of what I'm
using in my life so to celebrate them
being a new podcast sponsor I always
want to get a discount for you guys and
I've got one go to atesleep.com which is
e i g h t sleep.com slash Stephen and if
you do that you'll save a hundred and
fifty dollars on the Pod cover that I
have on my bed the one I'm talking about
grab your pod cover send me a DM and let
me know how you get on quick one you
guys know that for years now my office
is quite literally been everywhere on a
plane in the back of my car in a
terminal in an airport or on a train you
name it I've probably worked there ever
since I started my first business at 19
years old I've been working on the move
all I need is Wi-Fi a desk and my
headphones and I'm set and one of the
places that has always had my back when
I'm struggling to find an office is
wework I've been using wework for years
now whether it's in Manchester London
Manhattan or La wework is easy it
literally requires no thinking there's
no stress of finding the perfect working
location we work does it all for you
plenty of desk space meeting rooms
collaboration spaces drinks snacks it's
all there so for your next remote
working trip away from the office or if
you want a new Fresh space to work in
then don't just work anywhere wework
might just be your answer you can get 25
off your first six months of wework all
access by using Code CEO works that's
one word CEO works and to redeem this
offer visit we.com
CEO works
still struggle with because sometimes
when we we read the books and stuff and
I've written a book myself it can
sometimes
exude the illusion of fixed or figured
it all out I'm done
right what so what do you still struggle
with on an ongoing basis yeah uh I think
that uh I can be a better husband
um and I think I can be a Kinder father
and a more compassionate friend
um there's still some really basics of
human interaction that I haven't quite
gotten figured out
well because I wasn't really I didn't
learn these things from my parents right
I didn't learn
um you know connection and compassion in
the household that I grew up in so I've
had to you know a parent my adult self
in that in that direction and you know
to really I I struggle with
um making sure that I'm again using the
tools that God has given me to try and
make the world a better place I think
there's a lot more that I could be doing
to uh try and make the world better and
to help
heal people that are disenfranchised and
bring more joy to people's lives and
um and try and bring spiritual tools to
a young generation that I think will
make their lives better there's there's
more I could be doing to that end
and I still have a big ego you know I'm
still narcissistic and I still you know
want ego satisfaction and it's always
there you know it's it's uh it's uh
you know they always say an addiction
that your addict is in the basement
doing push-ups you know even when it but
I would say the same thing about the ego
you know it's there in the in the
basement doing push-ups just getting
ready to come in and take the reins does
it speak to you sometimes
the the guy in the basement
yeah absolutely yeah you know Jung talks
about the shadow side and it's so
important and part of the therapeutic
process is to get to know one's Shadow
because and to know and embrace and
accept and love one's Shadow and I have
a I have a dark shadow you know it's an
addict Shadow and it's a miserable
Shadow and it's self-important and
righteous and entitled and this is this
is part of who Rayne Wilson is you know
and I'm not going to get rid of those
aspects of Myself by keeping that shadow
at arm's length or locked in a closet or
something like that I have to you know
keep you keep your enemies closer you
know keep that keep that shadow there
you are buddy there you are right on the
belly
yeah you little you little mean little
addict you know your little narcissistic
entitled [__]
I love you I love you you're right here
with me you're part of me let's go on
this we're in this together I got you
right where I want you everyone's got a
shadow
um a lot of people are trying to fight
their Shadow I mean a lot of the
prevailing narratives are that you can
therapy your way out of the Shadow yeah
no it's it's sitting there you gotta
[__] sit the shadow on the lap almost
like a ventriloquist dummy you know it's
uh that's why I love ventriloquist
ventriloquist stories and horror films
of like the dummies that come to life
and attack you know because that's
that's your Shadow is is that hello how
are you [__] you Stephen Diary of a
[__] CEO get a new t-shirt idiot
that's gonna be the trailer
um the 12-step program you and Russell
have both spoken to me about this but
Macklemore's talked to me about it as
well and what I've since the
conversation with Russell I've spent a
lot of time talking to other people
about
um really like what makes us change so
the 12-step program is has some
principles which I think are applicable
for all of our lives about how to how to
create change
um
if someone's going through something in
their lives now and they're they're
struggling to change it how does that
12-step program help us to go to change
what what is it about that program that
causes that change in people do you know
I love the 12-step program that's such a
great question there's going to be
people that are way more
um knowledgeable than I
but I will say there are some essential
components of the 12-step program that
you write are applicable to everyone and
could make everyone's lives better uh I
think society as a whole could benefit
from a lot of the way that the 12 Steps
work
um I think it's the most profound
spiritual movement of the last several
hundred years uh it has transformed
millions of people's lives
first of all there's the idea that
there's this wonderful dichotomy at the
center of the 12 steps which is if I
Surrender if I admit defeat if I admit
powerlessness I find great strength
so there's a there's a beautiful
spiritual koan at the center of that I
give up I throw up the White Flag I
can't do this on my own
I need the support of a community
I need to get vulnerable
I need the support of a higher power
and then I find great strength there's
something just so beautiful about that
and the community of the 12 steps is
amazing too like
sharing with like-minded alcoholics
and getting the support of that
Community the fact that their servant
leaders that there's elections that it's
it's a run it's the inmates running the
Asylum you know there aren't these kind
of leaders in fact
there if there's someone who kind of
presents as like a leader and 12 steps
you should be immediately wary of them
that they have any kind of answer at all
the surrender Point really is the thing
that's compelled me in fact it's when
Russell was talking about this idea of
um I think the kind of what he said was
like
he broke it down into three kind of
processes awareness of whatever it is
the belief that you can change the thing
and then this third step this principle
of kind of surrendering to it and and in
an individualistic Society materialistic
Society where we're becoming more and
more
isolated and individualistic in our
approach to life we are living in full
white walls alone more than ever before
you know we we think we can do it
ourselves right this idea of surrender
and admitting that you need the
collective and help with something that
you might not have the answers I think
is so powerful
so so important as well I think we all
need to surrender in many ways I think I
need to surrender in terms of my ego I
think I need to surrender
um
in terms of even spirituality I told you
a second ago about my partner who is
very s whatever anyone might call
spiritual and surrendering to her way of
living has brought me so much value in
my life so this idea of surrender being
the solution to
um
the resistance we're encountering by the
ways that we're living I think is
something that everyone can consider
like if you're feeling a deep sense of
dissatisfaction in your life
surrendering and saying I need help I
don't know the answer
um
can can you help me yeah brings in
everything you're Pro it's probably that
the medicine that you're seeking but
surrender feels like an interesting word
it feels like powerlessness right but
again there's great power in that
powerlessness and what do you surrender
to and that's why there's a higher power
as well and
uh boy there's so many things I wanted
to say there uh
but uh there's a humility in the process
that is missing in contemporary Society
right let's say we're the least humble
that humans have been uh in in our
history all eight billion of us sharing
this planet so
um
and I think God or a higher power
requires a certain humility like there
is a power greater than myself the ego
is the opposite of surrender the ego
wants to control outcomes the ego wants
to control other people right as long as
we're trying to control other people and
control outcomes we're going to be
unhappy so there's something about
surrendering like
you know your your partners
you know Journey you surrender to that
you don't know what she's gonna go live
on a commune or worship a mushroom or
something like that okay you're on your
journey she already knows babe
you know so it's it's again that Central
spiritual struggle is is the is the is
the ego is the premises the Primacy the
Primal C of I the self as being separate
from everything else and the essential
spiritual teaching at the center of
every Faith tradition is that we're all
connected we're all United we're all one
this is an illusion of self
so surrender
eliminates that illusion of self but
there's so many other nuggets in 12
steps like one of them just in the
middle of the steps is when we are wrong
promptly admit it like that's just a
really good piece of advice and you know
what we could all benefit politicians
could benefit CEOs could benefit
um people in relationships parents with
their children people in in Partnership
could benefit like when we're wrong
promptly admit it promptly being the
word not eventually you know
um as soon as you know say you're sorry
and do it faster you know and do it
better and uh the world would be a much
better place if everyone around said
when I'm wrong I'm going to promptly
admit it that's just one little gem
there's so many
dozens more holiday yeah she's been with
you through a lot yeah yeah when I was
looking at the timeline of when you you
guys got together I think you met in an
acting class right yeah it's been a long
time almost four decades right
hell a long time yeah we were an acting
class together in 1985. we weren't
together as a couple till 1991 really
when she moved to New York but uh yeah I
wasn't even born then you've grown a
whole Stephen in that time [__]
I was born in 92 so what is she what is
she what does she mean to you
are you gonna make me cry aren't you
you're gonna try and make me cry I don't
know I don't know you might hate her
um
she's everything to me I mean I am so
blessed to have her in my life
um she's dealt with me when I've been a
raging [__] and she's dealt with me
when I've been depressed when I've when
I've let my anxiety get the best of me
um we've had a lot of ups and downs in
our marriage and I think that that's
really important for people to hear like
uh I we're soul mates
um and uh I really wouldn't have
achieved anything that I've achieved
without her help and guidance and love
and support and it you know it all
sounds like a cliche but it's just it's
just the truth and she's really the
wisest person that I know she has a deep
deep wisdom and she knows me better than
anyone so I'm just grateful and I tell
her every day I tell her every day what
she taught you about the nature of what
love is
you know it's interesting she also had a
very traumatic childhood and a difficult
her parents had a very difficult
situation and she she had a lot of
issues in her own way and her own
Journey I'll let her tell that story but
um
she loves very naturally in a way that
it's a lot more work for me
so she just has a big heart and is just
able to love
our son and other people and animals and
uh
you know I I always
felt like is an analogy I use in uh in
my in my books where because I had such
a weirdly fractured childhood
I would observe how humans interacted
and uh try and emulate that because I
didn't understand it so if I would like
observe people in the lunchroom at my
school and they'd come in and someone
would say like hey buddy how's it going
you have a good weekend good to see you
and I would I would watch it and I would
I'll be like oh that's that's how normal
people interact and so I would I would
literally copy it and I would try it out
and I'd go up to someone like hey buddy
uh how you doing you have a good weekend
you know so for me I felt like I was an
alien like I was literally like a
science fiction film where I was like
this alien like learning about human
behavior and interaction and like
studying humans and and seeking to to
fit in and I bring this up because
holidays uh does this stuff so naturally
you know she just has a natural warmth
and and Grace uh so and sometimes I
emulate her about oh here's what it
means to be loving and and warm and uh
and live life with with Grace
you and me both
my partner sounds exactly the same and I
feel like I've learned how to love
someone by emulating the things she does
so naturally the things she says the
things she admits when she says sorry
how open she is the her ability to tell
me her feelings all of these things I've
I've learned from just watching that she
seems to have no issue or no resistance
in doing it
that makes sense I've learned that a
parent from her so well and our son uh
bless him Walter is
18 and a half about to go off to college
um but I always wanna
maybe lecture or react a little too much
or say the thing I feel that needs
saying and and my wife is so good and
like she'll see me starting to do it and
she'll just be like
just just this little thing and I'll be
like and I think Walter
well we'll we'll talk about it later I
just I take my cues from her little
Alexis she's a conductor with my she's a
conductor of my parenting too
rain thank you so much we have a closing
tradition on this podcast where the last
guest leaves a question for the next
guest not knowing who they're leaving
the question for
they leave it in the Diary of a Seer
that's good
the question they have left for you I
didn't get to read it until
so give me a second handwriting isn't
always great
can you recall a time when you
observe he reads it observed someone
being treated badly and could have
intervened but didn't
uh so what might you have done
differently
if you could go back to that moment
that's such an exceptional question I
was reading a uh someone was writing
about bullying and they were talking
about how bullying is a three-step
process like
you stop the bully you say hey that's
not okay speak up to the bully maybe
don't get in a fight but speak up to the
bully
tend to the bullied
and then report it to an authority
and we often just kind of view bullying
as like that first step process of like
trying to shut down the bully
and
you know back in the 70s and 80s when I
was growing up uh there was a hell a lot
of bullying going on and
um and I I feel bad that I didn't bully
myself because I was far too nerdy
um to partake in bullying but
if that's any reason why
well part of it was part of it was
because I wish that I could have been a
part of that process of especially
people that had been bullied to
uh I I guess I just didn't have the
tools to give them empathy and
compassion and support and then to take
an active part in you know reporting
this whole dynamic to the authorities
because I when I go back uh and replay
my high school years in junior high in
elementary school years it's non-stop
bullying I mean it was it was taunting
and teasing and you know taking the piss
out and and demeaning and belittling and
um and hierarchies and
uh we may be going a little too far in
contemporary Society about what
qualifies as bullying because it's not
criticism and it's not even necessarily
like having some good-natured fun you
know but uh I wish I had been uh I'm
more actively
a participant in kind of
a part of the three-step process
it's super interesting never heard about
that three-step process before this
particular individual I don't usually
give Clues but uh but um they're writing
a book about adult bullying as well um
having been on the receiving end of that
they think adult bullying is something
we don't really talk about a lot which
is like the workplace stuff and um
you know as we get older
Wayne thank you so much
um thank you for so many things my
there's two real really incredible
things that um changed my life in a
really important way the first was
obviously the office you know you were
by far my favorite character and I think
that I just can't understand how a human
can be could have been so good at acting
and I really mean that like I don't
[__] people but you're so good at
acting playing that role of Dwight I
think there was occasions where I tried
to do it like I tried to so it's almost
it's it comes as a shock to many people
that and you know this because you kind
of allude to it in the first chapter of
the book that
someone that could embody Dwight can
also write such a great book like this
about something that is so far from what
I think Dwight might be interested in
and it's actually all a testament to
your ability to your ability to act
really really unbelievable I think your
role as Dwight is one of the all-time
great performances in any show like that
it's it's incredibly incredible and you
talk about as I said in the 10th chapter
of the book about spreading Joy you gave
me so much joy and then you came out
with this app called Soul pancake back
in the day which caught me at the
perfect moment where I was a young man
that was really obsessed with these big
questions still am
um and it allowed me to find this
community where I just peppered people
with really profound questions about
whether dogs have you know a soul and
all these kind of things that I was
struggling with at the time so thank you
for both of those things because you
helped me in ways that you'll never know
and I live tens of thousands of miles
that way and it changed just nudged the
the direction of my life and so many
important ways and it's led me to this
moment now which you can understand for
me is an incredible absolutely
incredible one so thank you means a lot
and everyone should go check out this
book it's it's wonderful it's super
accessible it's it kind of I don't know
how to describe this but it
as as it relates to books that are
confronting this idea of the spiritual
Revolution it takes it easy on you and
it holds your hand across the bridge you
know and that that I think is important
because that person in the Lorry or the
truck that's exactly what they need if
they are going to access the wisdom in
this book so thank you rain Stephen what
a profound pleasure thank you for having
me on the show congratulations on all
the incredible work that you do
and um
thank you for acknowledging the fact
that you owe everything to me
[Laughter]
and that's a wrap
foreign
as you know they're a sponsor of this
podcast and I'm an investor in the
company one of the things I've never
really explained is how I came to have a
relationship with huel one day in the
office many years ago a guy walked past
called Michael and he was wearing a
heeled t-shirt and I was really
compelled by the logo I just thought
from a design aesthetic point of view it
was really interesting and I asked him
what that word meant and why he was
wearing that T-shirt and he said it's
this brand called heal and they make
food that is nutritionally complete and
very very convenient and has the planet
in mind and he the next day dropped off
a little bottle of fuel on my desk and
from that day onwards I completely got
it because I'm someone that cares
tremendously about having a
nutritionally complete diet but
sometimes because of the way my life is
that falls by the wayside so if there
was a really convenient reliable
trustworthy way for me to be
nutritionally complete in an affordable
way I was all ears especially if it's a
way that is conscious of the planet give
it a chance give it a shot let me know
what you think
[Music]
oh
foreign
[Music]